Merged the content with Benefits of MSAL (#101520)
Azure/azure-content: articles/active-directory/develop/msal-migration.md

## Why switch to MSAL?

> To understand 'Why MSAL?', it's important to first understand the differences between Microsoft identity platform (v2.0) and Azure Active Directory (v1.0) endpoints. The v1.0 endpoint is used by ADAL while the v2.0 endpoint is used by MSAL. If you have developed apps against the v1 endpoint in the past, you would probably be using ADAL (Azure AD authentication Library). Since the v2 endpoint has changed significantly enough, the new library, Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL), was built for the new endpoint entirely. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To understand 'Why MSAL?', it's important to first understand the differences between Microsoft identity platform (v2.0) and Azure Active Directory (v1.0) endpoints. The v1.0 endpoint is used by Azure AD Authentication Library (ADAL) while the v2.0 endpoint is used by Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL). If you've developed apps against the v1.0 endpoint in the past, you're likely using ADAL. Since the v2.0 endpoint has changed significantly enough, the new library (MSAL) was built for the new endpoint entirely. 
```

> The following diagram shows the v2 vs v1 endpoint experience at a high level, including the app registration experience, SDKs, endpoints, and supported identities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following diagram shows the v2.0 vs v1.0 endpoint experience at a high level, including the app registration experience, SDKs, endpoints, and supported identities.
```

> ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/76989215/202167545-5777c943-b68b-46cb-95ed-3416cbf5f2c1.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![v1.0 vs v2.0 architecture](../azuread-dev/media/about-microsoft-identity-platform/about-microsoft-identity-platform.svg)
```

> ![v1.0 vs v2.0 architecture](../azuread-dev/media/about-microsoft-identity-platform/about-microsoft-identity-platform.svg)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following diagram shows the v2.0 vs v1.0 endpoint experience at a high level, including the app registration experience, SDKs, endpoints, and supported identities.

![v1.0 vs v2.0 architecture](../azuread-dev/media/about-microsoft-identity-platform/about-microsoft-identity-platform.svg)
```

added a line break to fix rendering... also alt text needs to be fixed for the diagram here.

> MSAL leverages all the [benefits of Microsoft identity platform (v2.0) endpoint](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/76989215/202164286-9b07d541-b48b-4297-9dd6-69927e1edc69.png)

Reviewer: These are not the original assets. Looking for them now.

> MSAL leverages all the [benefits of Microsoft identity platform (v2.0) endpoint](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/76989215/202164286-9b07d541-b48b-4297-9dd6-69927e1edc69.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MSAL leverages all the [benefits of Microsoft identity platform (v2.0) endpoint](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/76989215/202164286-9b07d541-b48b-4297-9dd6-69927e1edc69.png)
```

the link in this line opens an image that is just the text... this needs to be fixed.

> MSAL is designed to enable a secure solution without developers having to worry about the implementation details. it simplifies and manages acquiring, managing, caching, and refreshing tokens, and uses best practices for resilience. It is recommended to use MSAL to [increase the resilience of authentication and authorization in client applications you develop](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/resilience-client-app?tabs=csharp#use-the-microsoft-authentication-library-msal).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MSAL is designed to enable a secure solution without developers having to worry about the implementation details. it simplifies and manages acquiring, managing, caching, and refreshing tokens, and uses best practices for resilience. We recommend you use MSAL to [increase the resilience of authentication and authorization in client applications that you develop](../fundamentals/resilience-client-app.md?tabs=csharp#use-the-microsoft-authentication-library-msal).
```

## Why switch to MSAL?

To understand 'Why MSAL?', it's important to first understand the differences between Microsoft identity platform (v2.0) and Azure Active Directory (v1.0) endpoints. The v1.0 endpoint is used by Azure AD Authentication Library (ADAL) while the v2.0 endpoint is used by Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL). If you've developed apps against the v1.0 endpoint in the past, you're likely using ADAL. Since the v2.0 endpoint has changed significantly enough, the new library (MSAL) was built for the new endpoint entirely. 

The following diagram shows the v2.0 vs v1.0 endpoint experience at a high level, including the app registration experience, SDKs, endpoints, and supported identities.

> ![v1.0 vs v2.0 architecture](../azuread-dev/media/about-microsoft-identity-platform/about-microsoft-identity-platform.svg)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![Diagram that shows the v1.0 versus the v2.0 architecture.](../azuread-dev/media/about-microsoft-identity-platform/about-microsoft-identity-platform.svg)
```

> MSAL leverages all the [benefits of Microsoft identity platform (v2.0) endpoint](../azuread-dev/azure-ad-endpoint-comparison.md)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
MSAL leverages all the [benefits of Microsoft identity platform (v2.0) endpoint](../azuread-dev/azure-ad-endpoint-comparison.md).
```

> MSAL leverages all the [benefits of Microsoft identity platform (v2.0) endpoint](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/azuread-dev/azure-ad-endpoint-comparison)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
MSAL leverages all the [benefits of Microsoft identity platform (v2.0) endpoint](../azuread-dev/azure-ad-endpoint-comparison.md)
```

| Proactive token renewal |![Proactive token renewal - MSAL provides the feature][y]|![Proactive token renewal - ADAL doesn't provide the feature][n]|
| Throttling |![Throttling - MSAL provides the feature][y]|![Throttling - ADAL doesn't provide the feature][n]|

## Additional Capabilities of MSAL over ADAL

> - Auth Broker support – Device based Conditional Access Policy. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Auth broker support – Device-based Conditional Access policy
```

> - Proof of Possession tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Proof of possession tokens
```

> - Azure AD Certificate-based Authentication (CBA) on Mobile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Azure AD certificate-based authentication (CBA) on mobile
```

> - System browsers on mobile devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- System browsers on mobile devices
```

> - Where ADAL had only Authentication Context Class, MSAL exposes the notion of has a collection of client apps (public client and Confidential Client).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Where ADAL had only authentication context class, MSAL exposes the notion of a collection of client apps (public client and confidential client).
```

[!INCLUDE [application type](includes/adal-msal-migration.md)]

> MSAL Supports a wide range of application types and scenarios. Please refer to [Microsoft Authentication Library support for several application types](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/reference-v2-libraries#single-page-application-spa).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MSAL Supports a wide range of application types and scenarios. Please refer to [Microsoft Authentication Library support for several application types](reference-v2-libraries.md#single-page-application-spa).
```

ADAL to MSAL Migration Guide for different platforms are available in the following link.

> - [Migrate to MSAL iOS and MacOS](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/migrate-objc-adal-msal)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Migrate to MSAL iOS and MacOS](migrate-objc-adal-msal.md)
```

> - [Migrate to MSAL Java](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/migrate-adal-msal-java)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Migrate to MSAL Java](migrate-adal-msal-java.md)
```

> - [Migrate to MSAL .Net](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/msal-net-migration)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Migrate to MSAL .Net](msal-net-migration.md)
```

> - [Migrate to MSAL Node](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/msal-node-migration)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Migrate to MSAL Node](msal-node-migration.md)
```

> - [Migrate to MSAL Python](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/migrate-python-adal-msal)   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Migrate to MSAL Python](migrate-python-adal-msal.md)   
```
